[Music]
I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars Renewal and this is the rosary in
a year podcast where through prayer and
meditation the rosary brings us deeper
into relationship with Jesus and to Mary
it becomes a source of grace for the
whole world. The rosary in a year is
brought to you by Ascension. This is day
149. To download the prayer plan for
rosary in a year, visit
essentiress.com/rosary in a year or text
riy to
333777. You'll get an outline of how
we're going to pray each month and it's
a great way to track your progress. The
best place to listen to the podcast in
the Ascension app. There are special
features built just for this podcast and
also recordings of the full rosary with
myself and other friars. On behalf of
myself and the whole team here at
Ascension, we wanted to take this
opportunity to thank everyone who's
helped support this podcast financially.
Your generosity is so appreciated and
helps us to reach as many people as
possible. And if you haven't already,
please consider supporting us at
ascensionpress.com/support. Today we
will be meditating upon and praying with
the first joyful mystery, the
Annunciation with help from a painting
entitled the Annunciation by the artist
Henry Asawa
Tanner. And before getting into our
reflection, a brief introduction to our
artist and artwork. The artist, his name
again is Henry Oswell Tanner. Born in
the year
1859, died in the year
1937. And he was an American painter
from Pittsburgh who spent most of his
career in Philadelphia and Paris. He was
one of the first African-American
painters to be recognized
internationally.
This painting that we'll be looking at
the annunciation was done in the year
1898 and its style it is an oil on
canvas and the style is
realism. And now a visual
description. Mary sits on an unmade bed
covered in draped linens.
She's in a simple stone room decorated
with striped textiles and folded in a
red
tapestry with a blue wrinkled
carpet. She leans off the bed in
bewildered fixation as her brown eyes
look up towards a pillar of light
emerging on the far left side of her bed
chamber. The moment is held in suspense
as the luminous presence illuminates the
enclosed room, casting shadows among the
linens and behind our lady in her
flaxcoled striped robe. Her hair is
uncovered. A blue cloak hangs off a lona
bench. Now, I
hesitate to say this, but in all
honesty, I find this painting to be
heartbreaking. That's kind of my
interior response, but like in a good
way. And so, let me explain.
In our first painting of the enunciation
that we looked at by Fra
Angelico, we saw the angel appeared as a
royal messenger
as bowing before his queen and before
God, the one who sent him. And we saw
Mary really depicted as a queen. And
she's a queen receiving the message of
the angel
herself responding by reverencing her
head to the mystery of God and to her
messenger. What I would say is that that
painting of the annunciation by
Franelco, it communicated the truth. It
communicated the theological reality
that Mary is a humble queen. But I'll
say it with some emphasis on her being
in fact a
queen. In Tanner's rendition of the
enunciation that we're praying with
today, we see a complimentary but maybe
somewhat like opposite
approach. The angel Gabriel is depicted
as like a star, as a luminous,
mysterious heavenly figure. And we got
to remember right like angels are
non-corporeal beings meaning they don't
have a
body. So this angel Gabriel the angel of
this brightest light reminds us of the
otherness of the angel that he is in
fact already a heavenly being.
But how stark is this
contrast in Tanner's depiction here of
Mary? And I believe like what Tanner's
doing, what he does is he beautifully
depicts the humanity of
Mary and as I look at her face and I
just look at her disposition, my heart
it breaks. it wrenches as these words
almost spontaneously come to my lips and
and leave kind of as like a whisper
like she's just so
little. Like look at
her. She's just so little and she's so
young and she's so vulnerable.
And as the gospel tells us, Mary is
troubled at the announcement of the
angel, this heavenly luminous being
coming to her so expectedly and so
intimately and with a mission and
announcement of the highest gravity. And
so we get why she's
troubled and humanly speaking like she's
so
vulnerable here. She is so young, so
little, so innocent.
And again, naturally speaking, like so
unequipped for this
moment, this young little
girl, she's betrothed, but like
[Music]
unwed. And notice her right shoulder,
like how it's
turned sort of towards the angel, but
moving the rest of her body kind of away
from the angel. It's a movement towards
like what almost seems to be like a
movement of like self-p protection or of
hiding a certain degree of modesty, a
movement of of humility and holy
simplicity. Yet notice her eyes, right?
Like her eyes remain on the
angel. Her ears attentive, her
heart receptive.
Tomorrow we'll begin a little journey
within the journey as we look at God's
answer to her littleness and her
vulnerability before her mission and
before the world. But today, today we'll
just sit with
Mary as she's so little and so
vulnerable but
faithful, right? She's
troubled yet
trusting. And we see this all, right?
and Mary's fiat. Yes, I am a lowly
handmade of the Lord. Here I am a
servant of the Lord, a
lowly, but be it done unto me according
to your word. I may be troubled. I may
be little, but I am
trusting. And I imagine a lot of us can
resonate right with Mary's awareness of
her
littleness as we so often this is our
experience before maybe our
marriages just kind of before some of
the behaviors we want to do or not do
before our children before suffering
before whatever it is that God's
inviting us to do. We can just so often
feel so
little and maybe inadequate and kind of
vulnerable and perhaps
overwhelmed. Today, just allow God to
see you in your
littleness and to know that he sees
you and allow Mary to look at
you recognizing and remembering how it
feels. But also like Mary, let's keep
our eyes turned towards God, placing our
trust not in ourselves, right? Yes,
Lord, we are little, but Lord, how
marvelous are the works that you have
done through us little
ones. And now with Mary, let us pray. In
the name of the Father and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed
be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will
be done, on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread, and
forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive
those who trespass against us, and lead
us not into temptation, but deliver us
from evil. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us
sinners, now and at the hour of our
death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Glory be to the
Father and to the Son and to the Holy
Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen. In the name of the Father and
of the Son and of the Holy
Spirit.
Amen. All right. Thanks so much for
joining me and praying with me today. I
look forward to continuing this journey
with you again tomorrow. Poco Poco
friends. God bless you.